{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Session Management:\par
Session is a temporary memory where we can store small amount of data for certain period of time.It is a sessionstateBaseObject.\par
Four ways to store session data:\par
1. Inproc\par
2. state server(or) outproc\par
3.Sql server\par
4. Custom\par
\par
1. Inproc :\par
Default session mode ,here data gets stored in memory on the web server.\par
2. state server(or) outproc :\par
All sessions are stored in separate memory called asp.net service.\par
3.Sql server :\par
data is stored in Sql server database .\par
4. Custom :\par
we can specify custom storage  option for session.\par
\par
To end session :\par
Session.Clear() method - will remove all keys and values from current session.\par
Session.Abondon() method - will cancel the current session\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Web.config\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj web.config file is an XML-based configuration file used in ASP.NET-based applications to manage various settings that are concerned with the configuration of our website. In this way, we can separate our application logic from configuration logic. No need to restart if we want to change some configuration . asp.net automatically detects changes and and applies on running application.\par
\par
CLASSES :\par
AnonymousIdentificationSection\par
Configures anonymous identification for users that are not authenticated. This class cannot be inherited.\par
AssemblyCollection\par
Represents a collection of AssemblyInfo objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
AssemblyInfo\par
References an assembly to be linked to during compilation of a dynamic resource. This class cannot be inherited.\par
AuthenticationSection\par
Configures the authentication for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
AuthorizationSection\par
Configures a Web application authorization. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
BrowserCapabilitiesCodeGenerator\par
The BrowserCapabilitiesCodeGenerator class is used internally by the aspnet_regbrowsers tool to parse .browser browser definition files and add browsers to the run-time collection of known browsers contained in the BrowserCapabilitiesFactory object.\par
\par
BrowserCapabilitiesFactory\par
Provides methods used internally by the configuration system to produce request-specific instances of the HttpBrowserCapabilities class that are publicly accessed through the ASP.NET-intrinsic Request.Browser property.\par
\par
BrowserCapabilitiesFactoryBase\par
The BrowserCapabilitiesFactoryBase class is the base class from which BrowserCapabilitiesFactory is derived. It is used internally at run time by the configuration system to create request-specific instances of the HttpCapabilitiesBase class, publicly accessed through the ASP.NET intrinsic Request.Browser property.\par
\par
BufferModesCollection\par
A collection of BufferModeSettings objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
BufferModeSettings\par
Configures the ASP.NET event-buffering settings for event providers. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
BuildProvider\par
Provides functionality to parse a particular file type and generate code during compilation of a dynamic resource. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
BuildProviderCollection\par
Represents a collection of BuildProvider objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CacheSection\par
Configures the global cache settings for an ASP.NET application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ClientTarget\par
Defines the alias associated with the target user agent for which ASP.NET server controls should render content. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ClientTargetCollection\par
Represents a collection of ClientTarget objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ClientTargetSection\par
Configures the clientTarget section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CodeSubDirectoriesCollection\par
Represents a collection of CodeSubDirectory objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CodeSubDirectory\par
References a directory location that is used during compilation of a dynamic resource. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CompilationSection\par
Defines configuration settings that are used to support the compilation infrastructure of Web applications. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
Compiler\par
Defines a compiler that is used to support the compilation infrastructure of Web applications. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CompilerCollection\par
Represents a collection of Compiler objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
Converter\par
Represents a configuration element in a configuration file.\par
\par
ConvertersCollection\par
Represents a configuration collection that contains references to Converter objects.\par
\par
CustomError\par
Configures a CustomError section to map an ASP.NET error code to a custom page. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CustomErrorCollection\par
Represents a collection of CustomError objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
CustomErrorsSection\par
Configures the ASP.NET custom errors. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
DeploymentSection\par
Defines a configuration setting that is typically used on a production server to override application-level settings that are appropriate only on development computers.\par
\par
EventMappingSettings\par
Defines the ASP.NET event mapping settings for event providers. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
EventMappingSettingsCollection\par
Provides a collection of EventMappingSettings objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ExpressionBuilder\par
Retrieves a dynamic resource during compilation.\par
\par
ExpressionBuilderCollection\par
Represents a collection of ExpressionBuilder objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
FolderLevelBuildProvider\par
Represents configuration settings that enable use of the BuildProvider class for specific folders.\par
\par
FolderLevelBuildProviderCollection\par
Represents a collection of FolderLevelBuildProvider objects.\par
\par
FormsAuthenticationConfiguration\par
Configures an ASP.NET application to use the AuthenticationMode forms modality.\par
\par
FormsAuthenticationCredentials\par
Configures user credentials for ASP.NET applications that use form-based authentication.\par
\par
FormsAuthenticationUser\par
Configures the user's credentials for Web applications that use forms-based authentication.\par
\par
FormsAuthenticationUserCollection\par
Represents a collection of FormsAuthenticationUser objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
FullTrustAssembliesSection\par
Configures a set of full-trust assemblies. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
FullTrustAssembly\par
Configures a full trust assembly. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
FullTrustAssemblyCollection\par
Represents a collection of FullTrustAssembly objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
GlobalizationSection\par
Defines configuration settings that are used to support the globalization infrastructure of Web applications. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HealthMonitoringSection\par
Configures ASP.NET profiles that determine how health-monitoring events are sent to event providers. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HostingEnvironmentSection\par
Defines configuration settings that control the behavior of the application hosting environment. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpCapabilitiesBase\par
Provides access to detailed information about the capabilities of the client's browser.\par
\par
HttpCapabilitiesDefaultProvider\par
The default extension of the HttpCapabilitiesProvider class that is included with ASP.NET.\par
\par
HttpCapabilitiesProvider\par
Enables you to customize browser definitions. You can also customize the algorithm that identifies the browser based on information in the incoming HttpRequest.\par
\par
HttpCapabilitiesSectionHandler\par
Assists in reading in the <browserCaps> section of a configuration file and creating an instance of the HttpBrowserCapabilities class that contains the capabilities information for the client browser.\par
\par
HttpConfigurationContext\par
Supplies current context information to configuration-section handlers in ASP.NET applications.\par
\par
HttpCookiesSection\par
Configures properties for cookies used by a Web application.\par
\par
HttpHandlerAction\par
Configures an HttpHandlersSection configuration section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpHandlerActionCollection\par
Represents a collection of HttpHandlerAction elements. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpHandlersSection\par
Configures an HTTP handler for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpModuleAction\par
Configures the HttpModulesSection modules. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpModuleActionCollection\par
Represents a collection of HttpModuleAction objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpModulesSection\par
Configures an HTTP module for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
HttpRuntimeSection\par
Configures the ASP.NET HTTP runtime. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
IdentitySection\par
Configures the identity of a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
IgnoreDeviceFilterElement\par
Configures a device filter element.\par
\par
IgnoreDeviceFilterElementCollection\par
Represents a collection of IgnoreDeviceFilterElement objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
LowerCaseStringConverter\par
Provides support to convert an object to a lowercase string. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
MachineKeySection\par
Defines the configuration settings that control the key generation and algorithms that are used in encryption, decryption, and message authentication code (MAC) operations in Windows Forms authentication, view-state validation, and session-state application isolation. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
MachineKeyValidationConverter\par
Provides methods for converting MachineKeyValidation objects to and from strings.\par
\par
MembershipSection\par
Defines configuration settings to support the infrastructure for configuring and managing membership details. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
NamespaceCollection\par
Contains a collection of namespace objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
NamespaceInfo\par
Contains a single configuration namespace reference, similar to the Import directive. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
OutputCacheProfile\par
Configures the output cache profile that can be used by the application pages. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
OutputCacheProfileCollection\par
Represents a collection of OutputCacheProfile objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
OutputCacheSection\par
Configures the output cache for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
OutputCacheSettingsSection\par
Configures the output cache settings for application pages. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
PagesSection\par
Provides programmatic access to the pages section of the configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
PartialTrustVisibleAssembliesSection\par
Configures a set of partial-trust assemblies. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
PartialTrustVisibleAssembly\par
Configures a partial-trust assembly. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
PartialTrustVisibleAssemblyCollection\par
Represents a collection of PartialTrustVisibleAssembly objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
PassportAuthentication\par
Configures Passport-based authentication in ASP.NET applications.\par
\par
ProcessModelSection\par
Configures the ASP.NET process model settings on an Internet Information Services (IIS) Web server. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ProfileGroupSettings\par
Provides programmatic access to the group subsection of the profiles configuration file section.\par
\par
ProfileGroupSettingsCollection\par
Contains a set of ProfileGroupSettings objects.\par
\par
ProfilePropertySettings\par
The ProfilePropertySettings class provides a way to programmatically access and modify the profiles section of a configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ProfilePropertySettingsCollection\par
Contains a set of ProfilePropertySettingsCollection objects.\par
\par
ProfileSection\par
The ProfileSection class provides a way to programmatically access and modify the profile section of a configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ProfileSettings\par
Configures the ASP.NET event profiles. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ProfileSettingsCollection\par
Contains a collection of ProfileSettings objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ProtocolCollection\par
Represents a configuration element that contains a collection of protocols.\par
\par
ProtocolElement\par
Represents a protocol element in the Web services configuration file.\par
\par
ProtocolsConfigurationHandler\par
Represents a configuration handler for protocols.\par
\par
ProtocolsSection\par
Represents the protocols section of the Web configuration file.\par
\par
ProvidersHelper\par
Provides methods for creating provider instances, either singly or in a batch.\par
\par
RegexWorker\par
Used internally at run time by BrowserCapabilitiesFactory and BrowserCapabilitiesCodeGenerator to parse request data and identify the browser.\par
\par
RemoteWebConfigurationHostServer\par
Used internally at run time to support accessing configuration data remotely.\par
\par
RoleManagerSection\par
Defines configuration settings that are used to support the role management infrastructure of Web applications. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
RootProfilePropertySettingsCollection\par
Acts as the top of a two-level named hierarchy of ProfilePropertySettingsCollection collections.\par
\par
RuleSettings\par
Configures the ASP.NET event rules. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
RuleSettingsCollection\par
A collection of RuleSettings objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingAuthenticationServiceSection\par
Represents the configuration section for authentication service settings. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingJsonSerializationSection\par
Represents a jsonSerialization configuration section in the scripting element of the configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingProfileServiceSection\par
Represents the configuration section for profile-service settings. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingRoleServiceSection\par
Represents the configuration section for role-service settings.\par
\par
ScriptingScriptResourceHandlerSection\par
Represents a ScriptingScriptResourceHandler configuration section in the <scripting> element of the configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingSectionGroup\par
Represents the configuration section for scripting settings. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
ScriptingWebServicesSectionGroup\par
Represents a group of related sections in a configuration file.\par
\par
SecurityPolicySection\par
Defines configuration settings that are used to support the security infrastructure of a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SessionPageStateSection\par
Configures the sessionPageState section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SessionStateSection\par
Configures the session state for a Web application.\par
\par
SiteMapSection\par
Defines configuration settings that are used to support the infrastructure for configuring, storing, and rendering site navigation. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SqlCacheDependencyDatabase\par
Configures the SQL cache dependencies databases for an ASP.NET application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SqlCacheDependencyDatabaseCollection\par
Represents a collection of SqlCacheDependencyDatabase objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SqlCacheDependencySection\par
Configures the SQL cache dependencies for an ASP.NET application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SystemWebCachingSectionGroup\par
Configures the caching group within a configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SystemWebExtensionsSectionGroup\par
Represents a group of related sections in a configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
SystemWebSectionGroup\par
Allows the user to programmatically access the system.web group of the configuration file. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TagMapCollection\par
Contains a collection of TagMapInfo objects.\par
\par
TagMapInfo\par
Contains a single configuration tag remapping statement. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TagPrefixCollection\par
Contains a collection of TagPrefixInfo objects.\par
\par
TagPrefixInfo\par
Defines a configuration element containing tag-related information.\par
\par
TraceSection\par
Configures the ASP.NET trace service. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TransformerInfo\par
Specifies a custom class that extends the WebPartTransformer class for use by Web Part connections.\par
\par
TransformerInfoCollection\par
Contains a collection of TransformerInfo objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TrustLevel\par
Defines the mapping of specific security levels to named policy files. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TrustLevelCollection\par
Contains a collection of TrustLevel objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
TrustSection\par
Configures the code-access security level that is applied to an application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
UrlMapping\par
Maps a URL that is displayed to users to the URL of a page in your Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
UrlMappingCollection\par
Represents a collection of UrlMapping objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
UrlMappingsSection\par
Provides programmatic access to the urlMappings configuration section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
UserMapPath\par
Maps configuration file virtual paths to physical paths.\par
\par
VirtualDirectoryMapping\par
Specifies a custom virtual-directory hierarchy for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
VirtualDirectoryMappingCollection\par
Contains a collection of VirtualDirectoryMapping objects. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebConfigurationFileMap\par
Defines the configuration file mappings for a Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebConfigurationManager\par
Provides access to configuration files as they apply to Web applications.\par
\par
WebContext\par
Manages the path context for the current Web application. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebControlsSection\par
Configures the webControls section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebPartsPersonalization\par
Allows you to specify the personalization provider and set personalization authorizations. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebPartsPersonalizationAuthorization\par
Provides programmatic access to the authorization section contained in the webParts section of the configuration. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
WebPartsSection\par
Provides programmatic access to the webParts configuration file section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
XhtmlConformanceSection\par
Configures the xhtmlConformance section. This class cannot be inherited.\par
\par
\par
Methods\par
METHODS\par
GetSection(String)\par
Retrieves the specified configuration section from the current Web application's configuration file.\par
\par
GetSection(String, String)\par
Retrieves the specified configuration section from the Web application's configuration file at the specified location.\par
\par
GetWebApplicationSection(String)\par
Retrieves the specified configuration section from the current Web application's configuration file.\par
\par
OpenMachineConfiguration()\par
Opens the machine-configuration file on the current computer as a Configuration object to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMachineConfiguration(String)\par
Opens the machine-configuration file on the current computer as a Configuration object to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMachineConfiguration(String, String)\par
Opens the specified machine-configuration file on the specified server as a Configuration object to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMachineConfiguration(String, String, IntPtr)\par
Opens the specified machine-configuration file on the specified server as a Configuration object, using the specified security context to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMachineConfiguration(String, String, String, String)\par
Opens the specified machine-configuration file on the specified server as a Configuration object, using the specified security context to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMappedMachineConfiguration(ConfigurationFileMap)\par
Opens the machine-configuration file as a Configuration object, using the specified file mapping to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMappedMachineConfiguration(ConfigurationFileMap, String)\par
Opens the machine-configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified file mapping and location to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMappedWebConfiguration(WebConfigurationFileMap, String)\par
Opens the specified Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified file mapping and virtual path to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMappedWebConfiguration(WebConfigurationFileMap, String, String)\par
Opens the specified Web application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified file mapping, virtual path, and site name to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenMappedWebConfiguration(WebConfigurationFileMap, String, String, String)\par
Opens the specified Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified file mapping, virtual path, site name, and location to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String, String)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path and site name to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String, String, String)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path, site name, and location to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String, String, String, String)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path, site name, location, and server to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String, String, String, String, IntPtr)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path, site name, location, server, and security context to allow read or write operations.\par
\par
OpenWebConfiguration(String, String, String, String, String, String)\par
Opens the Web-application configuration file as a Configuration object using the specified virtual path, site name, location, server, and security context to allow read or write operations.\par
 \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 